Well, do you see that little nick
that's been cut off the corner
of the board there?
That's called back cornering.
That will allow the leather to. . . .
When I form the head around here
the leather will tuck down into there
and it will have a very traditional look,
which you will recognize when you see it.
It's a little bit hard to tell here.
Also, the boards have been lined
with a Japanese paper and paste
so that they will warp.
You can see the warp in them.
I just did that this morning.
That is to counteract the damp leather,
which, when it is put on the boards,
and as it dries, it will try to pull it back
that way because the leather will try to shrink.
So this will help counteract that.
Also helping that later on
will be these pastes . . .
when I paste these down.
As they dry, again, they will tend to shrink
and pull the boards in.
[Interviewer]: So basically what you're saying is
that if you hadn't done that,
the book would've pulled open.
[Campbell]: Yes, exactly. The boards would. . . .
Instead of sort of a more traditional,
comfortable sort of boards wrapping
around the text like that
you would have them splaying out like that.
[Interviewer]: Is it just the moisture from the glue
that helps it to pull inward,
or how does it actually work? To get it to . . .
[Campbell]: It's the . . . As the . . .
When you put the paste on the paper or the leather
it swells up because the fibers absorbing moisture,
tend to swell, and then it's . . .
the paste is adhering it to this solid surface . . .
relatively solid surface.
So, as the paste dries out and the moisture evaporates,
the fibers in the paper try to go . . .
and the leather . . . try to go back
to where they were before.
So they are actually shrinking,
and they are glued . . .
they are adhered to the surface
and there if it has enough pull . . .
it'll pull that board.
It'll warp that board like that.
And that's what it's doing.
So you have to balance that out
with what's on the outside
and what's on the inside.
It's not such a big deal on cloth,
but leather you really have to do that.
And you can see the paper is just pasted on.
It's just a sanding block.
It cuts that loose like that.
Quick and easy.
Now the boards are ready to go.
I marked them front and back, top.